Practicum report of DLP - Miguel Balea - David  Dans Villares

This practice consists in implement a lambda calculus interpret in Ocaml.

User Guide.
Here we describe how the new interpret functions work.
1.1 - Now sentences must end in ;; in order to allow users to split sentences in more than one line. 
    for example: let a = 5 in
                            if iszero a 
                            then true
                            else false ;;
1.2 - The output of the types now is more clear
2.3 - There is a new type String. Now values like "Hello world" are recogniced and functions can be defined with String too.
    There is a new operator ^ to concadenate two strings.

Technical Guide.
Here we describe the changes made to implement the new funtionalities.

1.1 - Multi-line-parsing. The main.ml  was modified to add the readline() output to a buffer, and keep reading lines until
    a ;; is found. Then the lexical parser is called over this new buffer. As the new buffer could now contain \n we added this 
    chararcter in the lexical rule that already ignored spaces and tabs.
1.1 - Changed string_of_ty a proper way to print parenthesis according to nesting level.

2.1 - Fixed-Point Combinator (Letrec)
    Native support for recursive functions was incorporated using the letrec keyword.
    Syntax: letrec f : Ty = lambda x:Tx. body in ....
    Implementation (Parser): In parser.mly, the letrec rule does not introduce a new term type in the AST for binding; instead, 
    it functions as syntactic sugar. It is internally transformed using the fixed-point combinator (TmFix).
    The expression letrec f : Ty = t1 in t2 is automatically translated to TmLetIn ("f", TmFix (TmAbs ("f", Ty, t1)), t2).
    Evaluation: In lambda.ml, evaluation rules E-Fix and E-FixBeta were added to perform recursive substitution of the term into itself.

2.2 - We implement global definitions through a new context. This lives as an argument in the main loop, and has a type global_contex,
    this is a list of global_entry types, that could either be a term or an alias (This is very similar to the old context for resolving types of local variables).
    Then in the main we use the funtion expand_globals to expand those in the term that stores so  we can then evaluate the full expresion.
    In order to allow declarations we change the type of the S producction in the grammar to a new type sentence that has 3 constructors, 
    one for terms, other for declarations, and other for aliases eachone with its corresponding grammar rule. Then we can use pattern-matching 
    in the main loop to either evaluate a expresion or declarate a new bind or alias.
    One important note is that we create a new token for names starting in capital for the aliases, so any alias of a type MUST start with capital.

2.3 - Added a new type "String" in the lamda.ml and .mli. A new term for the operator concat, and added a new token
    in the parser to recognice de concat operator symbol "^", a new token for the keyword String to represent the string type
     and a new token to recognice words in quotes as strings. Also with the tokens, the corresponding lexical and gramatical rules were included.

2.4 - Tuples
    Support for n-ary Cartesian products.
    Syntax: {t1, t2, ..., tn} for construction and t.i for projection.
    Typing: TyTuple contains a list of types. The T-Proj rule verifies that the projection index is within the list bounds
    (adjusting the user's 1-based index to OCaml's 0-based index).
    Evaluation:
    E-Tuple: Evaluates elements from left to right. A TmTuple term is only a value if all its components are values.
    E-ProjTuple: Extracts the i-th element once the tuple is fully evaluated.

2.5 - Records
    Support for data structures with labeled fields.
    Syntax: {label1=val1, label2=val2} for construction and t.label for projection.
    Typing: TyRecord stores a list of (string * ty) pairs.
    Evaluation: 
    Similar to tuples, fields are evaluated sequentially. Projection (TmProjVar) searches for the label in the associative list of the evaluated record.

2.7 - Lists
    Support for finite sequences of elements of the same type.
    Syntax: nil[Ty], cons t1 t2, isnil t, head t, tail t.
    Typing: TyList of ty. Strict rules ensure that cons receives an element and a list of the same base type, and that nil carries an explicit type annotation to avoid inference ambiguities.
    Evaluation:
    isnil: Returns true for TmNil and false for TmCons (when its components are values).
    head/tail: Extract the first component or the rest of the list, respectively.
    Complex examples were implemented in examples.txt (length, append, map) using letrec and list primitives, demonstrating the language's expressive power without relying on OCaml lists for user logic.